What launched the big data era?
In this video, you will learn about
two new opportunities that have
contributed to the launch
of the big data era.
Opportunities are often
a signal of changing times.
In 2013, an influential report by
a company called McKinsey claimed that
the area of data science will be the
number one catalyst for economic growth.
McKinsey identified one of our new
opportunities that contributed to
the launch of the big data era.
A growing torrent of data.
This refers to the idea that data seems to
be coming continuously and at a fast rate.
Think about this,
today you can buy a hard drive to store
all the music in the world for only $600.
That's an amazing storage capability over
any previous forms of music storage.
In 2010 there were 5 billion
mobile phones in use.
You can be sure that
there are more today and
as I'm sure you will understand,
these phones and
the apps we install on them
are a big source of big data,
which all the time, every day,
contributes to our core.
And Facebook, which recently just set
a record of having one billion
people login in a single day,
has more that 30 billion pieces
of content shared every month.
Well, that number's from 2013.
So I'm sure that it's much
higher than that now.
Does it make you think how many
Facebook share's you made last month?
All this leads to projections
of serious growth.
40% in global data per year,
and 5% in global IT spending.
This much data has sure
pushed the data science field
to start remaining itself and
the business world of today.
But, there's something else contributing
to the catalyzing power of data science.
It is called cloud computing.
We call this on demand computing.
Cloud computing is one of
the ways in which computing
has now become something that
we ca do anytime, and anywhere.
You may be surprised to know
that some of your favorite
apps are from businesses
being run from coffee shops.
This new ability,
combined with our torrent of data,
gives us the opportunity to perform novel,
dynamic and scalable data analysis,
to tell us new things about our world and
ourself.
To summarize, a new torrent of big data
combined with computing capability
anytime, anywhere has been at the core
of the launch of the big data era.